Do not carry cigarettes, matches, or lighters; hide them and give them to someone.

Buy cigarettes only at a certain place, preferably away from your home and work.

Do not buy cigarettes in blocks; until one pack is complete, do not buy another.

Give preference to filter cigarettes; do not finish your cigarette by 1/3 or 1/2.

Make it a rule that after each cigarette you smoke, wash your hands, brush your teeth and change your clothes to get rid of the smell of tobacco.

Tighten less frequently and reduce the depth of puffing. Do not leave a cigarette in your mouth between puffs.

Do not smoke "for company".

If you want to smoke, do not remove cigarettes from the pack for at least 3-5 minutes. During this time, try to do something else that will help you forget about the cigarette.

Fix the time when you light a cigarette, and note how much pull you have had at this time to smoke. 

This will help you know when you have the strongest desire to smoke. 

Highlight the "most important cigarette of the day," and then give it up.

Keep track of the cigarettes you have smoked in the day. 

Make sure there are fewer cigarettes in each subsequent day than there were in the previous one.

When you buy a pack of cigarettes, record their value, and at the end of the week calculate how much you can save on smoking.

Get rid of cigarettes and ashtrays in your home, car and workplace.

Avoid situations in which you are used to smoking.

Try to replace smoking with other activities: physical exercise, a new hobby.

If you smoke to make it easier for you to concentrate or to relieve stress, it is better to stop smoking during your vacation. If, on the other hand, you smoke more during a campaign, while on vacation with friends, a period of increased workload at work or at school will be more suitable when you are not smoking.

Give yourself a quitting date that makes special sense to you (your birthday, a holiday), and when that day comes, don't look for reasons to postpone it.

2-3 weeks before you plan to quit smoking, start taking multivitamins and vitamin C to reduce the unpleasant effects of quitting.

A day or two before your final quitting, smoke about twice as many cigarettes as usual.

Eat regularly, 3-4 times a day, do not eat before going to bed.

Limit the amount of meal and fatty foods you eat.

Do not eat more than one portion, and if you feel hungry, wait about 20 minutes before taking the supplement.

Do not replace the cigarette with candy or cake - better eat an apple, orange, carrot or cucumber.

Exercise regularly - it burns off extra calories, reduces stress and distracts you from smoking.

Translated with www.DeepL.com/Translator (free version)
